DateTime::Parse is a Perl 6 module to parse arbitrary strings
describing dates and times. Thus it permits users to specify dates or
times in whatever way is most convenient for them. You can also use
DateTime::Parse for machine-generated timestamps, and thus spare
yourself the trouble of finding or writing the appropriate specialized
parser, but you may find it too slow or unpredictable.

    parse-date('12th December, 1994') # Date.new(2010,  5, 5)
    parse-date('12/6/1994')           # Same.
    parse-date('6/12/1994', :mdy)     # Same.
    parse-date('1994 12 2 + 4 days')  # Same.
    parse-date('tuesday', today => Date.new(1994, 12, 4)) # Same.

    parse-datetime('mar 4 2010 1pm')
      # DateTime.new('2010-03-04T01:00:00')
    parse-datetime('now + 2 minutes',
                    now => DateTime.new('1999-12-31T23:59:00'))
      # DateTime.new('2000-01-01T00:01:00')

DateTime::Parse is heavily inspired by David Muir Sharnoff's excellent
Perl 5 module Time::ParseDate, although I haven't stolen any of his
code (yet). If you've used Time::ParseDate, one important difference
to be aware of is that dates like "6/12/1994" are by default
interpreted as day/month/year, not month/day/year; Americans (such as
yours truly) will want to use the :mdy argument.

So far, DateTime::Parse is largely immature and incomplete; it doesn't
do everything I just said it does and the interface itself should be
considered unstable. The best way to determine what it does at the
moment is to run the test suite. Contributions are welcome; just ask
me (Kodi Arfer) if you want to be a committer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

DateTime::Parse is copyright 2010 Kodi Arfer.

DateTime::Parse is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

DateTime::Parse is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with DateTime::Parse (see the file LICENSE). If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
